# MailboxProcessor.PostAndReply<'Msg,'Reply> Method (F#)

Posts a message to an agent and await a reply on the channel, synchronously.

**Namespace/Module Path:** Microsoft.FSharp.Control

**Assembly:** FSharp.Core (in FSharp.Core.dll)


## CAPS_SYNTAX_MD

```
// Signature:
member this.PostAndReply : (AsyncReplyChannel<'Reply> -> 'Msg) * ?int -> 'Reply

// Usage:
mailboxProcessor.PostAndReply (buildMessage)
mailboxProcessor.PostAndReply (buildMessage, timeout = timeout)
```

#### CAPS_PARAMETERS_MD
*buildMessage*
Type: [AsyncReplyChannel](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/e32fd8ec-37dd-4e63-94a5-67709962d1d0)**&lt;'Reply&gt; -&gt;   'Msg**


The function to incorporate the [AsyncReplyChannel](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/e32fd8ec-37dd-4e63-94a5-67709962d1d0) into the message to be sent.


*timeout*
Type: [int](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/025d5455-3622-4ea5-9573-3ecbd4ee1375)


An optional timeout parameter (in milliseconds) to wait for a reply message. The default is -1 which corresponds to **F:System.Threading.Timeout.Infinite**.



**The reply from the agent.**
## CAPS_REMARKS_MD
The message is generated by applying *buildMessage* to a new reply channel to be incorporated into the message. The receiving agent must process this message and invoke the **Reply** method on this reply channel precisely once.

**The following code example shows how to start a mailbox processor agent. In this example, each line of input from the console is posted to a message queue. The program reads each message and replies by using a reply channel. When the special message "Stop" is received, the Stop reply is sent and the program exits.**
**[!CODE [FsMailboxProcessor#7](../CodeSnippet/VS_Snippets_Fsharp/fsmailboxprocessor/FSharp/fs/program.fs#7)]**
**Following is an example session.**
**Mailbox Processor TestType some text and press Enter to submit a message.Type 'Stop' to close the program.&gt; hello1 : Console loop4 : mailboxProcessorReply: Message number 0 was received. Message contents: hello&gt; testing1 : Console loop3 : mailboxProcessorReply: Message number 1 was received. Message contents: testing&gt; hello?1 : Console loop4 : mailboxProcessorReply: Message number 2 was received. Message contents: hello?&gt; testing 1 2 31 : Console loop3 : mailboxProcessorReply: Message number 3 was received. Message contents: testing 1 2 3&gt; Stop1 : Console loop4 : mailboxProcessorPress Enter to continue.**
## Platforms
Windows 8, Windows 7, Windows Server 2012, Windows Server 2008 R2


## Version Information
**F# Core Library Versions**

Supported in: 2.0, 4.0, Portable




## See Also
[Control.MailboxProcessor&#60;'Msg&#62; Class &#40;F&#35;&#41;](Control.MailboxProcessor%3C%27Msg%3E+Class+%28F%23%29.md)

[Microsoft.FSharp.Control Namespace &#40;F&#35;&#41;](Microsoft.FSharp.Control+Namespace+%28F%23%29.md)

